---
title: "Runtime Compliance API"
linkTitle: "Runtime Compliance"
weight: 4
---

### Overview

As of 3.1, Anchore has introduced new features that allow users to gain insight into the security compliance of their runtime environment through a new runtime compliance API. This API is designed to be general purpose so it can be consumed by a variety of tools that are responsible for executing the actual compliance checks on a running environment, such as the Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIG) that can be run on a kubernetes cluster by Anchore's Remote Execution Manager (REM). By uploading the results of a given compliance into Anchore, users can leverage additional Anchore functionality, such as reporting, to gain a deeper understanding of the ongoing security of their runtime environments. 


### Usage

The Compliance API can be found in the enterprise api swagger specification. This API allows for the creation and retrieval of runtime compliance checks, as well as any document reports provided in the creation calls.

There are two fields required for the creation of runtime compliance checks. The `type` field is meant to reference the type of scan that is generating the report. As of right now, the only supported option is `oscap`, which stands for OpenSCAP, but this is expected to grow with future releases. The other required field is `image_digest`, which represent which image was present in the container that the runtime compliance check was run against. 

While not required, the `status` attribute is used to designate whether the given compliance check has passed or failed. There are also a number of additional metadata fields provided to further contextualize the runtime check, such as the `pod` and `namespace` that the check was run against. 

One of the other key functionalities of this API is the ability to attach report and result files to the created runtime compliance checks. This can be the direct output generated by the runtime tool itself, such as an OpenSCAP XML document. This allows for entire reports to be preserved within Anchore and can be easily retrieved through the API specified in the swagger specs. These reports are stored using Anchore's [object storage]({{< ref "/docs/installation/storage/object_store/" >}}), which allows for a number of options for how and where this data will be preserved. 